<!-- external references -->

[online docs]: https://ebimodeling.github.io/biocro-documentation/
  "Online documentation for BioCro (dev version)" {target="_blank"}

[master branch docs URL]:
https://ebimodeling.github.io/biocro-documentation/master/pkgdown/index.html
"Online documentation for the master branch of BioCro (dev version)"
{target="_blank"}

[biocro auto-document workflows]:
  https://github.com/ebimodeling/biocro/actions/workflows/automatically-call-document.yml
  "Documentation workflow runs (automatic)" {target="_blank"}

[biocro documention workflows]:
  https://github.com/ebimodeling/biocro/actions/workflows/document.yml
  "Documentation workflow runs (manual)" {target="_blank"}

[pkgdown]: https://pkgdown.r-lib.org/index.html "The pkgdown web site" {target="_blank"}

<!-- footnotes -->

[^landing_page]: Note that this page does not necessarily contain
links to all available versions of the documentation: it is generated
from the file `README.md` at the top level of the
`ebimodeling/biocro-documentation` GitHub repository, and it must
be updated manually to change the links that appear.  See the section
[_When online documentation is generated_](#sec:generation-triggers)
for information about the URLs for various generated versions.

[^latest_version]: If there is more than one run for a given pull
request, you will probably want the latest one.  If the Zip file has
expired, you may have to manually call the workflow to regenerate it.
(Be sure to choose to run the workflow on the branch corresponding to
the pull request you are interested in.)

    Manually-triggered workflow runs may be found at
[https://github.com/ebimodeling/biocro/actions/workflows/automatically-call-document.yml][biocro
documention workflows]

[^direct_links_to_doxygen_docs]: If you manually generate the Doxygen
documentation without generating the pkgdown framework, you can access
the Doxygen documents directly by using URLs of the form
`https://ebimodeling.github.io/biocro-documentation/<branch
name>/doxygen/<version>/index.html`, where `<version>` is one of
`doxygen_docs_complete`, `doxygen_docs_framework`,
`doxygen_docs_modules`, or `doxygen_docs_modules_public_members_only`.

[^direct_links_to_developer_manual]: If you manually generate the
developer (Bookdown) documentation without generating the pkgdown
framework, you can access the Bookdown book directly by using URLs of
the form
`https://ebimodeling.github.io/biocro-documentation/<branch
name>/bookdown/index.html`.

## Note about the types of documentation in BioCro {.unnumbered #sec:documenation-types}

There several categories of documentation for BioCro:

* The top-level `README.md` is for general information about BioCro
  and is intended for _potential_ users of the package.

* The files in `man` directory document the R functions and the data
  associated with the BioCro package and are intended for _users_ of
  the package.

* The files in the `vignettes` directory are generally "longform"
  documentation, also intended for _users_ of the package.

* There is the documentation generated by Doxygen, generally from
  comments in the C++ source files.  This is of interest to
  developers, but general users may also be interested, particularly
  in the documentation of the various BioCro modules.

* Finally, there are various `.md` or `.Rmd` files scattered about the
  package that are referenced by the `bookdown/_bookdown.yml`
  configuration file, and that can be compiled into a book (_this_
  book, if you are reading this page in _bookdown_) using the
  `bookdown` package.  This documentation is targeted at BioCro
  developers and maintainers.

## The online documentation {-}

Each of the above categories of documentation is available online at
[https://ebimodeling.github.io/biocro-documentation/][online
docs], the landing page for various versions of the online
documentation of the code in the `ebimodeling/biocro`
repository.[^landing_page]

**The URL for the latest version of the _master_ branch is
[https://ebimodeling.github.io/biocro-documentation/master/pkgdown/index.html][master branch docs URL].**

### When online documentation is generated {- #sec:generation-triggers}

Documentation is automatically generated when

* The master branch of the repository on GitHub is updated.

  This version of the documentation lives at
  [https://ebimodeling.github.io/biocro-documentation/master/pkgdown/index.html][master
  branch online docs].

* A version of the repository's history is tagged, and that tag is
  pushed to the GitHub repository.

  Each tagged version's documentation lives at a URL of the form
  `https://ebimodeling.github.io/biocro-documentation/<tag
  name>/pkgdown/index.html`.

* A pull request is created or updated.

  In this case, the documentation is generated and packaged as a Zip
  file available for download but is not deployed online.  To download
  such a file, go to
  [https://github.com/ebimodeling/biocro/actions/workflows/automatically-call-document.yml][biocro
  auto-document workflows] and find a workflow run corresponding to
  the pull request whose documentation you wish to view.  Click on it,
  and then find the artifact to download near the bottom of the
  page.[^latest_version]

In addition, one can always manually trigger a workflow build of the
documentation for a specific branch.  You can either have it deployed,
or merely built for download.  One can also choose which types of
documentation to generate.  (See the introductory section about [types
of documentation](#sec:documenation-types) for discussion of the
various types of BioCro documentation.)

If you choose to deploy the branch documentation, the result will live
at a URL of the form
`https://ebimodeling.github.io/biocro-documentation/<branch
name>/pkgdown/index.html`.

### The layout of the online documentation {-}

The layout of the online documentation is in the form of a [pkgdown]
document.  Each of the categories of documentation listed above
corresponds to a portion of this document as follows:

* The `README.md` document appears on the pkgdown home page (_BioCro_
  in the menu).

* The `man` pages appear under the menu item _References_.  (Note that
  although the page heading on this page says _Function reference_,
  documentation of the various data sets is included as well.)

* The vignettes appear under the menu item _Articles_.

* The Doxygen documentation appears under the menu item _C++ Library_.
  Note that there are various forms of this documentation of varying
  concision and comprehensiveness.[^direct_links_to_doxygen_docs]

* The developer documentation (this book!) appears under the menu item
  _Developer's Manual_.[^direct_links_to_developer_manual]

Note that the Developer's Manual, the C++ documentation, and the
PDF-style vignettes are not well integrated into pkgdown, and the user
will have to click the browser _back_ button to return to pkgdown
proper to once again have access to the pkgdown menu items.

In addition to the documentation proper, the menu bar contains some
other useful links:

* The _About_ page gives useful information about the
  documentation---namely, which branch and commit version it
  corresponds to and the commit and generation dates.

* The _Changelog_ shows the BioCro version history.

* Finally, there is a search box at the right of the menu bar.  **Note
  that this will not search the portions of the documentation not
  integrated into pkgdown, that is, it will not search the Developer's
  Manual, the C++ documentation, or the PDF-style vignettes.** And the
  search box only functions when pkgdown is deployed on a server.
